30 September 2024

Hello!

In this logbook, I am tracking what I did in this folder. My goal is to optimize memory allocation so that I can decrease the distance between the points in my Earth grid. 

The "Mantle layering.ipynb" file is copied from this folder's parent folder (organized stuff)

When I was running my code before, I noticed that if I try to compute the DM grid all at once, it ran into memory issues, however, if I tried splitting it into two different layers (whose contributions I just add up later), it didn't complain. So, I wanted to extend this idea further, and use the smaller distance grid with even more sub layers (whose contributions are added up at the end).

Ok, this all sounds great in principle! The first step was to still use 20km for the crust and 50km for the mantle, and check that all the plots obtained are excatly the same (and they should be - we are adding up the same things, we just split them into smaller chunks). I tried doing this in "Optimized Memory_v1.ipynb", while "Optimized Memory_v0.ipynb" was kept to do the same thing, but with the mantle grid size adjusted to 20km.

So, "Optimized Memory_v1.ipynb" is supposed to produce the same plots as "Mantle layering.ipynb", but the issue is that it doesn't! I tried to make it so that the only difference between these is that DM and EM are split into more sublayers.

One first thing to check is that I added all these contributions correctly : I used chatgpt to write things for all the different sublayers, I should have not done this. The first thing I will do is check that these things were correct. I will replace the loops written by chatgpt with "manual" summations and hope that this fixes things.

However, if it does not fix things, things are REALLY FUCKED! This is because things are already split in layers in "Mantle layering.ipynb". Not as many, yes, but layers nevertheless! DM is even split into two! So if the issue is not with summing up the components, but with the splitting in general, it basically means that most of the results I showed so far are messed up. But! It also means that I will be forced to reorganize my code nicely and debug, which is great and beautiful. 

18:55 pm: I changed all the for loops summing over things with regular sums (with a looooot of terms);  I used chatgpt again, but I checked it and they are indeed all the same; I'll run both codes and see how it goes!

19:08: Still messed up! See exhibit 1 for example; I have to do the whole code fixing!!! Will do that tomorrow though

7 October 2024

I fixed some typos and now the wiggles are still sidderent but the overall values are almost the same so I'll work with that. The difference might be a precision issue (that I don't understand but whatever ... I don't really like that the result depends strongly on this)

I can run it up until a grid of 550 points in 1d but then it gets killed. I tried to do a bunch of things to get around this, running it as a python script in terminal instead of jupyter notebook, running in browser, i don't know ... i tried running on the hpc, had to make a venv to install dependencies, lots of things but it gets killed even faster on the hpc so i don't think that's the solution
